We have Peteris
Jurcenko, CEO, UX designer
and accessibility expert
at SIA Turn Digital.
He's giving us a presentation on
the future of accessibility sorry,
the future of
accessibility statement.
And that will be the last
lightning round talk we have
for the WordPress
Accessibility Day.
All right Peter,
let's bring it home for us.
Hello, my name is Peteris
and four years ago
[speaking foreign language]
we created an initiative
which means accessibility
dot LV in Latvian.
We do research and
training on accessibility
but we have also
create practical tools.
For example, schoolofvp .com [?]
is a platform based on
WordPress for school
to create accessible
websites and field days.
We have also created accessibility
statement generation plug in.
And I will tell you in more
details about this plug-in.
But for beginning,
what is accessibility statement?
I will describe it as a page
on the website that tells you
what is accessible and what is
not accessible on this website.
And who to contact
in case of problems.
Usually, the link on this
page is in the footer
somewhere next the privacy policy.
Here you can see examples and links
on the European Parliament go UK
and the US presidents page.
Why provide an
accessibility statement?
In some situation,
you may be required
to provide an accessibility
statement such as public institution
in countries that implement
the [unintelligible 02:37]
web accessibility directed.
The main reasons are to show users
that you care about accessibility
and about them.
Provide information which content
on your page is accessible
and which is not and
how to deal with it.
Publish information about
accessibility information
and contact information if users
need help with contact accessibility.
Demonstrate commitment
to accessibility
and to social responsibility.
What to include in an
accessibility statement?
It depends on the
country and regulation.
Some countries have templates.
Some examples include the
results of web assimilation.
Web accessibility initiative
recommends include: commitment
to accessibility, which accessibility
standards such as WCAG 2.1
and which level A to AAA is
applied, conduct information
and response time in case
users encounter problems.
It's also good practice
to provide information
about any known limitation
in your website to avoid
frustration of your users.
For example,
old videos do not have subtitles.
Measures taken by your organization
to ensure accessibility.
For example, websites
assimilation and user methodology.
Technical prerequisites such
as supported web browsers.
Environments in which the
content has been tested to work
and also references to apply
national and local laws and policies.
Is accessibility
statement acquired?
It depends,
on which country or website operates
in which sector your
organization operates.
For example, In Latin,
our government implements
European government
directive which is mandatory
in the public institutions in
the publicly owned companies
but it is not mandatory
to private companies yet.
On the website, web accessibility
initiative you can see regulations
in every country but this
information is mostly from 2018
and they plan to start publishing
the updates in this November.
Here you can see example of
Nordic insurance company.
This is a private company that
operates in seven countries
with different regulation.
You can see the link related
to accessibility is only free
on their websites.
It is interesting that Apple defines
accessibility as Apple value,
but this is not translated
in every language.
For example, in Latin websites only
privacy was mentioned as a value.
So, if you are planning to
include accessibility statement
on your website is there
a tool or generator
which can help you generate
and accessibility statement.
First dimension is web accessibility
initiative accessibility
statement generator.
You can fill in a simple form
and generate a plain HTML file.
All fields are fill in examples.
Another publicly available
tool and accessibility
and ability statement generator
from Portugal’s government system.
It requires more detailed information
including userability test
for people with disabilities.
As a result, you get an HTML
file which you can copy and paste
to your website.
There is a similar tool
of Belgian government.
And a very nice tool is
from [unintelligible].
All tools provide form to be filled
in and generated at HTML file.
There are some issues
with this approach.
Information is either
too general for the needs
of different countries or to
specific if the tool is designed
for specific country.
It would be nice to adapt this
tool for different countries
but it's not possible as
they are not plug-ins.
Some of the generation provide
source code but you need to run
and the host this tool somewhere.
As they do not have central
plug-in and installation.
All generators provided
result as HTML block or file.
Which means it is hard to
update next year and problems
to copy paste in
machine readable format.
And yes,
this is not the WordPress way.
We tried to solve previously
mentioned issues in the WordPress way
and one of them is
a WordPress plug-in
and I will demonstrate it later.
Another approach is create and
publish accessibility statement
for each country as a pattern.
Which pattern will not
solve all the problems
with machine readable format.
For example,
if you have a planned update syntax
or ID you can do it only for new
content not for previously published.
The plug-in update you can improve
machine readable afterwards.
What to expect from
WordPress plug-in.
Provide information and links
to local regulation website,
provide tax examples,
description, edit not create,
fill some custom fields,
result work in any theme,
provide only semantic
content not style, result
in machine readable format,
content can be easily updated
like normal page, ability to
customize template content
from WordPress admin
not only from code.
Let's see how it works.
When you activate accessibility
statement plug-in,
it will create a page.
Accessibility statement
because this plug-in is
in Latvian [unintelligible]
when you edit this page, and use
ACF if you have it to use your home.
If you're not have it to use
in ACF which was available
open source previously.
Here you can fill in the form.
You have a link to local guidelines
where you can get information out
to check and what to include in
this accessibility statement.
And it works like
normal WordPress page.
You can update,
you can preview changes.
And for example, here it creates
semantic HTML inside the WordPress
and if you change theme
it works with any theme
if you change it works
with another team as well
because it's only
HTML without style.
What we get in this HTML?
We get machine
readable text as well.
And if you want to
change this template,
to change this machine readable you
can do it from WordPress illustration
as well go to the settings
accessibility statement settings
and here is text and the classes
are specific text for creation.
What I think about future of
WordPress accessibility statement
actually it's two ways.
We like plug-in one or many
plug-ins and new patterned library.
I think pattern library is easy way
but you cannot update some things
after you publish this statement.
In plug-in way it's possible to
update the machine readable text
and information with
plug-in updates afterwards.
And yeah, if some content change
plug-ins more better way to use
in WordPress.
Thank you, that's all for me.